So we had a look at addition, subtraction, multiplication and division,
the basic mathematic operations but there are other operators as well
and you already saw some of them, for example operators to compare values like the following one.
If I have this statement and I want to see if one equals one,
what do you think we'll get? Well of course we get true.
So this here is a comparison operator and we have the equal operator with two equal signs and with
three equal signs,
I already showed this before.
If I hit run again, we still get true.
The reason for this is that with three equal signs, we're not only checking if the value is the same
but also if the type is the same
and here of course both is true,
the value is one and the type is number.
If we turn this one here into a string, we would get false because it's not the same type,
this is a string and this is a number.
If I remove one equal sign and I only check for value equality and I don't care about the type, then
I would get true again because the value is the same since Javascript is able to turn this string with
a value of 1 into a number with value of 1 if you want to put it like that.
You can also check if something is not equal by adding an exclamation mark in front of the equal
sign,
notice that I only have one equal sign here to check for value equality.
So now if I hit run, I get
true because one is not equal to two.
Now if I check if one is equal to one as a string but I use the exclamation mark and two equal signs,
I'm checking if the values and the types are not equal in this case.
So what do you think I'll get here? I'll get true
because the number one is not completely equal to the string one,
it doesn't have the same type.
So as with three equal signs, we got the same for the opposite when checking if something is not the
case,
of course only with two equal signs since one of them is replaced with the exclamation mark here.
Of course we may not only check if something is equal or not equal, we can also check if something
is greater, like if one is greater than zero which would give us true
and is one greater than one? Certainly not. Of course we can change this to one being greater than
or equal to one,
in this case we would get true,
since it is greater or equal, it is equal in the end.
Does this also work with the string here?
Yes and
does it work if I add another exclamation marks so that we get false again
because it's not the same type?
No, we get an error,
we don't have that operator.
So with the greater or smaller or greater than and smaller than operators, we can't check the types,
we can only check the values here
and that of course makes sense because if you think about it, you would not check if it's equal but if
it's greater or equal
and how would you check if one type is greater than the other types?
Types have no such order in this case
or in this sense.
So this won't work.